## ./cells

Secure File Sharing for business

### Synopsis

Thank you for using Pydio Cells.
Comprehensive sync & share solution for your collaborators. Open-source software deployed on-premise or in a private cloud.

### Installation

For the very first run, use './cells install' to load browser-based or command-line based installation wizard. Services
will start at the end of the installation.

### Run

Run './cells start' to load all services.

### Logs level

By default, logs are outputted in console format at the Info level. You can set the --log flag or set the PYDIO_LOGS_LEVEL environment
variable to one of the following values:
 - debug, info, error : logs are written in console format with the according level
 - production : logs are written in json format, for usage with a log aggregator tool.

### Services Discovery

Micro services need a registry mechanism to discover each other. By default, Pydio Cells ships with Nats.io.
You don't need to install any dependency. By default, Cells uses the NATS implementation.

```
./cells [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --fork               Used internally by application when forking processes
      --grpc_cert string   Certificates used for communication via grpc
      --grpc_key string    Certificates used for communication via grpc
  -h, --help               help for ./cells
      --log string         Sets the log level mode (default "info")
      --registry string    Registry used to manage services (default "nats")
```

### SEE ALSO

* [./cells config](./cells-config)	 - Configuration Manager
* [./cells deps](./cells-deps)	 - Show dependencies between services
* [./cells doc](./cells-doc)	 - Generate MD documentation for this command
* [./cells install](./cells-install)	 - Pydio Cells Installer
* [./cells install-cli](./cells-install-cli)	 - Pydio Cells Command-Line Installer
* [./cells list](./cells-list)	 - List all available services and their statuses
* [./cells start](./cells-start)	 - Start Cells services
* [./cells stop](./cells-stop)	 - Stop one or more services
* [./cells update](./cells-update)	 - Check for available updates and apply them
* [./cells version](./cells-version)	 - Display current version of this software

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 19-Jun-2018
