## ./cells

Secure File Sharing for business

### Synopsis

Thank you for using Pydio Cells.
Comprehensive sync & share solution for your collaborators. Open-source software deployed on-premise or in a private cloud.

### Installation

For the very first run, use './cells install' to load browser-based or command-line based installation wizard. Services
will start at the end of the installation.

### Run

Run './cells start' to load all services.

### Logs level

By default, logs are outputted in console format at the Info level. You can set the --log flag or set the PYDIO_LOGS_LEVEL environment
variable to one of the following values:
 - debug, info, error : logs are written in console format with the according level
 - production : logs are written in json format, for usage with a log aggregator tool.

### Services Discovery

Micro services need a registry mechanism to discover each other. By default, Pydio Cells ships with Nats.io and Consul.io implementations.
You don't need to install any dependency. By default, Cells uses the NATS implementation. You can switch to consul by using
the flag --registry=consul.



```
./cells [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --fork               Used internally by application when forking processes
      --grpc_cert string   Certificates used for communication via grpc
      --grpc_key string    Certificates used for communication via grpc
  -h, --help               help for ./cells
      --log string         Sets the log level mode (default "info")
      --registry string    Registry used to manage services (default "nats")
```

### SEE ALSO

* [./cells config](./cells_config.md)	 - Configuration Manager
* [./cells deps](./cells_deps.md)	 - Show dependencies between services
* [./cells doc](./cells_doc.md)	 - Generate MD documentation for this command
* [./cells install](./cells_install.md)	 - Pydio Cells Installer
* [./cells install-cli](./cells_install-cli.md)	 - Pydio Cells Command-Line Installer
* [./cells list](./cells_list.md)	 - List all available services and their statuses
* [./cells start](./cells_start.md)	 - Start Cells services
* [./cells stop](./cells_stop.md)	 - Stop one or more services
* [./cells update](./cells_update.md)	 - Check for available updates and apply them
* [./cells version](./cells_version.md)	 - Display current version of this software

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 19-Jun-2018
